README.md, before:

# ZX NanoBSD

NanoBSD Vagrant build environment and config for various embedded systems.

Supported systems:
 * PCEngines ALIX
 * PCEngines APU2

Official NanoBSD howto: https://www.freebsd.org/doc/en/articles/nanobsd/howto.html

## Prerequisites

You'll need vagrant installed with either VirtualBox or VMware.

## Build

```
vagrant up
./build.sh apu2.conf
```

Once world/kernel is buit, it can be skipped on subsequent runs:

```
Usage: ./build.sh cfg_file [-v] [-bhiknw]
-i : skip image build
-w : skip buildworld step
-k : skip buildkernel step
-b : skip buildworld and buildkernel step
-v : build an image suitable for vagrant
```

## Install

Write full image directly to CF:

```
dd if=nanobsd.full of=/dev/da0 bs=64k
```

## Update

Run as root from the box you're updating.  Change update partition as required
(updatep1/updatep2)


```
ssh sourcehost cat nanobsd.image.gz | zcat | sh updatep1
```

## Generating vagrant base box

When run with the '-v' flag the NanoBSD image will be configured for use with vagrant.
i.e. vagrant user installed, configured ssh keys, sudo etc.

To create a base box:

```
vagrant up
./build.sh apu2.conf -v
```

This should spit out a nanobsd.box file in cwd.  Add to to vagrant as usual:

```
vagrant box add nanobsd.box --name apu2
```


## Manually converting NanoBSD imagapu2 VirtualBox VDI

Can be useful for testing without vagrant

```
VBoxManage convertdd nanobsd.full nanobsd.vdi --format VDI
```

Commit message:

Set root initial root password

README.md, after:

# ZX23 NanoBSD

NanoBSD Vagrant build environment and config for various embedded systems.

Supported systems:
 * PCEngines ALIX
 * PCEngines APU2

Official NanoBSD howto: https://www.freebsd.org/doc/en/articles/nanobsd/howto.html

## Prerequisites

You'll need vagrant installed with either VirtualBox or VMware.

## Build

```
vagrant up
./build.sh apu2.conf
```

Once world/kernel is buit, it can be skipped on subsequent runs:

```
Usage: ./build.sh cfg_file [-v] [-bhiknw]
-i : skip image build
-w : skip buildworld step
-k : skip buildkernel step
-b : skip buildworld and buildkernel step
-v : build an image suitable for vagrant
```

## Install

Write full image directly to CF:

```
dd if=nanobsd.full of=/dev/da0 bs=64k
```

## Access

By default remote root logins are allowed and the password is set to the board name.

Make sure to CHANGE THIS!

The first Ethernet interface is set to get address from DHCP.  On Alix it's the
interface next to power plug, on APU2 it's next to the serial port.

## Update

Run as root from the box you're updating.  Change update partition as required
(updatep1/updatep2)


```
ssh sourcehost cat nanobsd.image.gz | zcat | sh updatep1
```

## Generating vagrant base box

When run with the '-v' flag the NanoBSD image will be configured for use with vagrant.
i.e. vagrant user installed, configured ssh keys, sudo etc.

To create a base box:

```
vagrant up
./build.sh apu2.conf -v
```

This should spit out a nanobsd.box file in cwd.  Add to to vagrant as usual:

```
vagrant box add nanobsd.box --name apu2
```


## Manually converting NanoBSD imagapu2 VirtualBox VDI

Can be useful for testing without vagrant

```
VBoxManage convertdd nanobsd.full nanobsd.vdi --format VDI
```
